{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset161 Calibri;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red0\green32\blue96;\red0\green51\blue102;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\kerning24\f0\fs24 Two mTOR phosphorylation sites decreased  in phospho-occupancy in PKA dKO: Ser2448 (SRTRTDS*YSAGQS), dKO/cont = 0.58; Ser2481 (not basophilic  VPESIHS*FIGDGL), dKO/con = 0.18.  Both phoshorylation events increase enzyme activity (Kinexus PhospoNet).   \par
mTOR/rictor phosphorylates Sgk1 at Ser422 (in the hydrophobic motif) and activates it [18925875].  This phosphorylation site was not identified or quantified in dKO vs control.   \par
\b PKA directly phosphorylates Nedd4l protein. T\b0 hree Nedd4-2 residues are phosphorylated by PKA and are required for cAMP to inhibit Nedd4-2 [Snyder 15328345],  The sites [translated to mouse numbering] are S477 (IRRPRSLS*SPTVTLS),  S371 (SSRLRSCS*VTDTVAE), and T396 (TRRARSST*VTGGEEP).    \par
\b Herc4 undergoes a marked decrease in PKA dKO  (dKO/cont = 0.10)   at a basophilic site, \b0 S830 [LLKRKPS*LDDLKE].  Probable PKA site between the catalytic cleft and the E2 binding site in the HECT; likely inhibitory.  Herc4 contains a putative RanGEF that may play a role in nuclear translocation events [26801221].  \par
Short-chain ubiquitination at K270 mediates the regulated endocytosis of the aquaporin-2 water channel in collecting duct cells  [17101973]. \par
\cf2\b Itsn2\cf1  \cf2 undergoes a profound decrease \cf1\b0 in phosphorylation at a basophilic site in the PKA dKO, namely Ser491 [LSS\cf2 RKKS*\cf1 LHLELE] (dKO/cont = 0.002).  Probable obligate PKA site. This site is between the second EH domain and the first SH3 domain.\par
Itsn2 is an adapter protein that may provide an indirect link between the endocytic membrane traffic and the actin assembly machinery and may regulate the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles.  \par
Intersectins are adaptor proteins that interact with dynamin and clathrin adaptors to regulate endocytosis [10922467]. In collecting duct cells, intersectins regulate endocytosis of Kcnj1 potassium channel at apical plasma membrane [17380208] and hypothetically plays a similar  role to regulate AQP2 endocytosis. \par
Vasopressin increases the half life of AQP2 protein molecules in collecting duct cells [20724536, 24029424].  Half life increase from 10 to 14 hours in mpkCCD cells  [24029424].  \par
Vasopressin inhibits AQP2 endocytosis [12676734, 8396343].\par
\cf3\b Wnk1 \b0 S382 phosphorylation [RASFAKS*VIGTPE] is decreased in PKA dKO (PKA dKO/cont =0.40).  This site is in the activation loop and is presumably stimulatory. This suggests that PKA activation likely results in Wnk1 activation.  The effect of PKA is likely indirect since this is not a basophilic site. \par
\cf4 Two basophilic sites in \cf5\b Itpr3\cf4\b0  showed a profound decrease in phosphorylation in PKA dKO cells, viz.  S934 [VLS\cf5 RKQS\cf4 *VFGASS] and S1832 [TKG\cf5 RVSS\cf4 *FSMPSS].  The phospho-occupancy dKO/cont values were: S934, 0.005;  and S1832, 0.135.    Both sites are in the long N-terminal tail. \cf1 PKA enhances InsP\sub 3\nosupersub -induced Ca\super 2+\nosupersub  mobilization \{PMID: 9488697].\par
Phosphorylation of Itpr3 at \cf4 S934 and S1832 has been shown to be mediated by PKA \{PMID: \cf1 16107208].\par
\cf4 Vasopressin increases intracellular calcium via the vasopressin V2 receptor [2838523,     8342613] The mobilization is via an increase in the frequency of aperiodic Ca spikes [17957381, 18667481]. \par
cAMP/PKA induce ITP receptor mediated Ca oscillations in a variety of cell types (14505457).   This hypothetically may be in part due to a phosphorylation-induced  increase in Ca sensitivity of Ca-induced Ca release mechanism, increasing the likelihood that random Ca fluctuations will result in calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum.  \par
Direct phosphorylation by protein kinase A (PKA) is indicated by thick blue lines.  These phosphorylation targets are inferred from quantitative LC-MS/MS studies in which phosphorylation changes are measured in PKA double knockout mpkCCD cells versus control cells, inferred from the published literature, or inferred by both kinds of evidence.  mpkCCD is a vasopressin-sensitive cell line from mouserenal collecting duct expressing the V2 vasopressin receptor (Avpr2) and the vasopressin-regulated water channel aquaporin-2.  Possible downstream effects indicated by black lines.  Yellow rectangles indicate known physiological responses to vasopressin in collecting duct cells. \par
\cf1 PKA activates Rap1 (via  Src) through activation of RapGEF1 [11804588]. Src phosphorylates it at Y514 (mouse).  However, no phsphosphorylation site showed any change in any RapGEF. \par
No phosphorylation changes found in Rap1a or Rap1b in PKA dKO cells versus control. Note that Rap1a and Rap1b translocate from nucleus in response to vasopressin in mpkCCD cells [22440904], increasing in the cytosolic fraction [26310817].\par
Rap1-GTP was shown to block Ras-dependent activation of Raf-1 \ul  [\ulnone 8253074].\par
Sipa1l1 showed a profound decrease in phospho-occupancy  at Ser1611 (LPLRRPS*YTLGMK) in PKA double knockout cells versus control.  This is likely to be a direct and exclusive PKA site. Sipa1l1 is a PDZ-domain containing RapGAP.  Site is downstream from the PDZ domain. Effect on activity is not known; modeled here as inhibitory. \par
\pard ERK2 (Mapk1) activation loop phosphorylation \b\fs21 (T183/Y185) was \b0\fs24 more than doubled in the PKA dKO cells versus the control cells ( dKO/cont = \b\fs21 2.18).  ERK1 (Mapk3) did not show such a change (dKO/cont = 1.36) .\par
\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 In general ERK2 is activated by phosphorylation by MEK1 (Map2k1) or MEK2 (Map2k2).  However, we did not detect the activation loop phospho-peptide of Map2k1 or Map2k2.   Previous studies have shown MEK1/MEK2 phosphorylation is decreased in response to vasopressin in collecting duct cells [18667481].\par
Raf1 is activated by Ras proteins. Raf1 phosphorylation at S301 (SSPNNLS*PTGWSQ) was substantially increased in the PKA dKO (dKO/cont = 1.682).  Phosphorylation decreases activity [Kinexus PhosphoNet].  This could represent a component of a negative feedback loop that modulates the ERK2 activity decrease seen with vasopressin.  A previous study using western blotting with phospho-specific antibodies showed that vasopressin increases Raf1 phosphorylation at S259 (an inhibitory site) [18667481]. In PKA double KO cells in the present study, phosphorylation at this site [QRQRSTS*TPNVHM]was only marginally decreased (dKO /cont = 0.78) indicating that PKA may contribute marginally to the change in phosphorylation seen with vasopressin. \par
A-Raf phosphorylation at S255 (DGAPRGS*PSPASV) is markedly increased in the PKA dKO (dKO/cont = 2.170).  Phosphorylation at this site increases activity [Kinexus PhosphoNet].  Thus, we would expect to have decreased activity in response to vasopressin, which could help to drive the decrease in ERK2 activation.  This is a proline directed site and thus potentially a JNK target as assumed in the model.    \par
\pard\b Map3k5 is a MAP kinase kinase kinase, also known as \b0\i Apoptosis signal regulated kinase 1 \i0 (\b ASK1\b0 ).  Phosphorylation at \b  Ser\b0 973 [EYLRSIS*LPVPVL] was decreased in the PKA dKO\b  (dKO/cont = \cf2  0.51\cf1 ).  This is a basophilic site consistent with PKA target creating a 14-3-3 protein binding site (RSxS*xP) and suppression of enzyme activity (Kinexus PhosphoNet). \par
 \b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Map2k7 shows moderate increase at Ser293 (dKO/cont = 1.33) and Ser73 (dKO/cont = 1.76).  Serine293 is a potential activating site in the activation loop (SKAKTRS*AGCAAY), although primary site is listed as Thr291.  Effect of Ser73 phosphorylation not documented in Kinexus PhosphoNet. Map2k7 is JNK kinase 2 and activates JNK and not p38.                             \cf4\par
\cf1 No JNK phosphopeptides were found in PKA dKO cells.  However, its canonical target, the transcription factor \b Jun\b0 , showed a marked increase in phosphorylation at Ser63 (dKO/cont = 3.44) in the PKA dKO cells. (This is adjacent to the site that is strongly downregulated in response to vasopressin, viz. Ser73, also a JNK site).\par
Large-scale quantitative phosphoprotoemics studies in mouse mpkCCD collecting duct cells [20139300] and native rat IMCD cells from kidney [20075062] have demonstrated that vasopressin, working through the V2 vasopressin receptor and cAMP results in a wide ranging decrease in phosphorylation of proteins at sites with proline in position +1 relative to the phosphorylated S or T.  The results imply that vasopressin signaling is associated with a decrease in activation of one or more proline-directed kinases, i.e. MAP kinases or cyclin-dependent kinases. \par
Ras isoforms are activated by epidermal growth factor [12054111], resulting in activation of the MAP kinase pathway in collecting duct cells  [8092250, 18667481]. This is believed to occure through Raf1 activation [1312393, 12054111].  Epidermal growth factor inhibits the ability of vasopressin to increase water permeability in the renal collecting duct [2844852].\par
\cf2\b Protein Kinase D1 (Prkd1) \cf3 is an AGC family kinase also known as Protein kinase C mu and is regulated in part by diacylglycerol (DAG). \cf2  It \cf3 undergoes a large increase in phosphorylation at S403 [DSNRTIS*PSTSNN] in the PKA double KO cells (dKO/cont = 3.76). This is a proline-directed site, likely phosphorylated by a MAP kinase. When phosphorylated, it binds 14-3-3 regulating its localization in the cell and reducing activity at membrane surfaces (Kinexus PhosphoNet). Decreased phosphorylation in response to PKA therefore activates it. \par
\par
S511 in Pi4kb showed a marked decrease in phospho-occupancy in the PKA double KO cells (dKO/cont = 0.05).  This site is likely an exclusive direct PKA site (DIRRRLS*EQLAHT).   This is located just upstream of the catalytic domain, but the physiological effect was not reported (Kinexus PhosphoNet). The protein kinase D1 site, S294, was not identified and therefore not quentified in the PKA double KO cells. The hypothetical tryptic peptide is 6 amino acids.\par
\par
Protein kinase D (PKD) is recruited to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and is required for the biogenesis of TGN to cell surface transport carriers [\cf1\b0 18086912]\cf3\b .  In the trans-Golgi network (TGN), it regulates fission of transport vesicles that mediate trafficking to the plasma membrane [\cf1\b0 18086912]\cf3\b .  The effect seems to mediated by phosphorylation and activation of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinaseIII\u946? (PI4KIII\u946?) (\cf1\b0 16100512\cf3\b ).  \cf4\b0\par
\pard I\f1 n M1 cortical collecting duct cells\f0 , aldosterone mediated ENaC trafficking from the TGN to plasma membrane occurred via protein kinase D1-phosphatidylinositol 4-kinaseIII\f1\'e2 \f0 TGN \f1 signalling \f0 [\cf3\b 23541637].  Deletion of a Pi4kb interacting protein Plekha8 (FAPP2) inhibits TGN to apical plasma membrane translocation of AQP2 [19794145].\par
\par
Vasopressin, via the V2 receptor, increases the rate of exocytic insertion of AQP2 into the apical plasma membrane in collecting duct cells [18799651, 8396343, 12676734].  (Note: Many studies have demonstrated vasopressin-induced redistribution of AQP2 to the apical domain in collecting duct cells but do not distinguish between effects of exo- versus endocytosis.)\par
\par
The phosphorylation of calmodulin at Y100 was decreased in the PKA dKO cells versus control (dKO/cont = 0.53).  This site is a target for both EGFR and non-receptor kinases including Src and Fyn [10411641].  Phosphorylation of Y100 on CaM generally increases its affinity for regulatory target proteins, increasing their activation [10411641].  \par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf4\b0\par
Binding of calmodulin to Camk2 and Camk2 isoforms results in conformational change that relieves intrasteric autoinhibition.\par
Camk2b and Camk2d are both very abundant in collecting duct cells.  They are basophilic kinases with target specificity similar to Protein Kinase A.  \par
Recombinant CAMK2 phosphorylated AQP2 at Ser256 in vitro [24598363].  Target sequence:  REVRRRQS*VELHSPQ.  Large-scale data integration ranking protein kinases with regard to likelihood of phosphorylating AQP2 at Ser256 identified CAMK2 as the top-ranked kinase in mpkCCD cells [26310817] and native rat renal inner medullary collecting duct cells [24598363].\par
\par
Ser256 phosphorylation in AQP2 is sustained in mpkCCD cells after PKA double KO. \par
Ser256 phosphorylation in AQP2 has been seen to increase in response to vasopressin in some studies [9950956,16641100], but this response has not been seen in other studies [19190182, 20089674].  Xie et al. quantified phospho-occupancy at Ser256 in rat innner medullary collecting duct, showing that the baseline level of Ser256 phosphorylation was constitutively high, and there was no increase with vaspressin [20089674].   Phosphorylation of Ser256 of AQP2 is a pre-requisite for phosphorylation at Ser264 and Ser269, but increases at Ser264 and Ser269 do not depend on an increase at Ser256 [18606813].  Phosphorylation at Ser256 is thought to be necessary for  AQP2 exocytosis [9227644].\par
Ser269 phosphorylation in AQP2 has been seen to increase many fold in response to vasopressin in collecting duct cells [18606813,20089674].  Phosphorylation of this site was undectable in mpkCCD cells when both PKA catalytic subunit genes were deleted, indicating that Ser269 phosphorylation requires PKA, presumably because it is a direct substrate. \par
Ser261 is the only site in AQP2 that decreases in response to vasopressin[18606813,20089674].  Phosphorylation of this site was increased in mpkCCD cells when both PKA catalytic subunit genes were deleted, indicating that Ser261 phosphorylation is negatively regulated by PKA.  This site has a proline in position +1 and is a likely substrate of one or mre proline-directed kinases. Interestingly, in the PKA double KO cells, vasopressin increased phosphorylation, suggesting a PKA-independent phosphorylation event that is normally masked by the PKA-dependent decrease in phosphorylation. This vasopressin response could have been a result of direct cAMP-mediated regulation of RapGEF3 (EPAC1) or RapGEF4 (EPAC2), activation of arrestin-mediated MAPK pathway activation, or a G-(beta/gamma) effect. \par
\par
Ser264 phosphorylation in AQP2 has been seen to increase in response to vasopressin in collecting duct cells [18606813,20089674].  Phosphorylation of this site was sustained in mpkCCD cells when both PKA catalytic subunit genes were deleted, indicating that some other unknown protein kinase phosphorylates it.  Its investigation is hindered by very low phospho-occupancy (<5%) even in the presence of vasopressin [] so we cannot rule out the possibility that PKA can phosphorylate it. \par
\cf3\par
Theoretically, S269 phosphorylation could interfere with K270 ubiqutylation. However, S269 phosphorylation and K270 ubiquitylation do not appear to be mutually exclsusive [24876223].   Although K63-linked polyubiquitylation marks AQP2 for endocytosis, site-specific phosphorylation can over-ride polyubiquitylation to determine the localization of the AQP2 water channel [24876223].  \par
S269 phosphorylation potentiates plasma membrane retention of AQP2, presumably by inhibiting endocytosis [18606813]. Theoretically, this could occur if S269 phosphorylation interferes with K270 ubiqutylation. However, S269 phosphorylation and K270 ubiquitylation do not appear to be mutually exclsusive [24876223]. Although K63-linked polyubiquitylation marks AQP2 for endocytosis, site-specific phosphorylation can over-ride polyubiquitylation to determine the localization of the AQP2 water channel [24876223].\par
\par
\pard\cf0\kerning0\f2\fs22 Dear Karl -\par
\~\par
On my paper with Brad Yu on the mechanism of AQP2 endocytosis and its regulation by vasopressin (JASN-2016-06-0601.R1), we were seemingly done in by a single rogue referee.\~ The reviewer criticisms were largely about new questions posed by the referee and\~ not posed by us.\~\~\par
\par
 I think that the job of the referee is to address whether the question(s) raised\~ by the authors have been answered and whether the answers justify the conclusions (and of course whether the questions asked are important enough to move the field).\~ I do not think it is fair for the referee to pose his/her own questions.\~ Consequently, I am requesting reconsideration of the journal's decision.\~ One thing that could be done is to ask the other two (seemingly positive) reviewers for feedback. \par
\par
 If necessary we can provide responses to the comments, but, for brevity's sake, I have not provided them here.\par
\~\par
I believe that the paper addressed an important mystery about how Ser269 phosphorylation of aquaporin-2 regulates aquaporin-2 endocytosis, providing the mechanistic information needed to understand diabetes insipidus syndromes. \par
\~\par
The review correspondence is included in the thread below.\~ \par
\~\par
Let me know your thoughts on this.\par
\~\par
Mark\par
\~\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\kerning24\b\f0\fs24 Bad interacts with death repressor protein Bcl-X(L) in mitochondrial outer membrane reversing its death repressor activity   ... Promotes cell death.  Phosphorylated on Ser-155, blocking its pro-apoptotic activity.\b0    Thus, PKA activation and Bad phosphorylation is predicted to inhibit apoptosis and promote survival.  \b Appears to act as a link between growth factor receptor signaling and the apoptotic pathways. \par
\pard\cf5 Ser155 of Bad is a classic PKA target (PhosphoSitePlus). [PMID: 10880354].\par
\par
In the PKA double KO cells, there was a marked decrease in phosphorylation at S155 [RELRRMS*DEFEGS]  (dKO/cont=0.12) . \par
\par
\cf1 Bad interacts with death repressor protein Bcl-X(L) in mitochondrial outer membrane reversing its death repressor activity. Therefore it is pro-apoptotic.  \par
Phosphorylation on Ser-155 by PKA, blocks its pro-apoptotic activity.\b0    \par
\par
Thus, PKA activation and Bad phosphorylation at Ser155 are predicted to inhibit apoptosis and promote survival.  \par
Vasopressin inhibits apoptosis in renal collecting duct cells through the V2 receptor and downstream cAMP-mediated pathways in mammalian kidney [23136001].\par
\par
 Vasopressin increases phosphorylation of Bad at S155 in collecting duct cells  [23136001]. \par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\par
\pard\cf5 Bim (\cf1\b0 Bcl2l11), which is pro-apoptotic, undergoes an increase in phosphorylation in the PKA dKO at S73 [GPFATRS*PLFIFV], a proline directed site (dKO/cont = 1.64).   Bim is expressed in various splicing variant forms and is subject to multisite phosphorylation at proline-directed sites by both ERK and JNK [15947788].  At least some of these phosphorylation events enhance apoptosis (e.g. at Ser65 of mouse) although the Ser73  site found lacks documentation. Ser65 phosphorylation was  only identified in one PKA dKO/control pair and the dKO/cont ratio was 1000. \par
\par
Decreased Bim phosphorylation by Jnk1 with PKA activation predicts a decrease in apoptotic rate. \par
\par
\cf3\b The Fgd proteins are CDC42-specific GEFs called \ldblquote FYVE, RhoGEF and PH domain-containing proteins\rdblquote .  Via the FYVE domain, they selectively bind  phosphatidylinositol 3- phosphate [\cf1\ul\b0 9697764\ulnone ], which localizes them to early endosomes and plasma membrane (Cf. EEA1). They are involved in coupling the actin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane [18410521].   \cf3\b Fgd3 underwent a profound decrease in phosphoryation at Ser442 [ITGRKRS*LELQTR], a strong basophilic site and likely PKA direct target (dKO/cont = 0.02).   The site is amid the first PH domain, upstream from the FYVE domain.  No data on effect of phosphorylation.  It is proposed to inhibit binding to membrane and therefore to limit activity at apical plasma membrane.  \cf5\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\par
Also, Fgd1 underwent a marked increase in phosphorylation at Ser116 [ILVKSLS*LDPGQS], a canonical 14-3-3 target, which may sequester it. (dKO/cont = 3.17). This site is not depicted in model. \par
CDC42-specific GEFs catalyze exchange of GDP for GTP, thereby activating CDC42. \par
\pard\cf2 CDC42 \cf3 is a small GTP-binding protein that is attached to lipid bilayers via a geranylgeranyl anchor at the C-terminus.  Classically,\cf1\b0   CDC42, Rac, and Rho play different roles in different membrane domains.   In the context of cell migration, CDC42, Rac, and Rho regulate filopodia, lamellipodia, and stress fibers respectively\cf3\b  [Hall, Science, 1998: \cf1\b0 9438836]. \par
\par
\cf3\b E\cf2 ffectors for CDC42 \cf3 in nucleation of plasma membrane associated actin polymerization  are the \cf2 Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome proteins\cf3 , Was and Wasl.  Wasl is the most abundant in mpkCCD cells, although Was could also play role. Neither were found to undergo phosphorylation changes in the PKA double KO. Was and Wasl have N-terminal CRIB domains that bind CDC42\par
\par
Wasl and Was interact with the Arp2/3 complex to drive actin filament nucleation and branching.  \cf1 The resulting actin polymerization can drive membrane movement, e.g. in lamellipodia. Although phosphorylation sites were detected in some of the subunits of the Arp2/3 complex, none were altered in phospho-occupancy in the PKA dKO.  This process has been seen to drive membrane invagination in endocytosis [\b0 25143395\b ].\par
\par
\b0 Pacsins are \cf2\b F-Bar domain proteins \cf1\b0 that bend the lipid bilayer (e.g. membrane tubulation) and bind dynamin.  They regulate internalization of plasma membrane proteins such as GLUT1 and TRPV4 [UniProt].  They bind WASP via their Src homology 3 domains at COOH-terminus. PACSIN proteins colocalize with \cf2\b dynamin\cf1\b0  [11082044]. \par
Pacsin3 at Ser319 [KEKGGRS*PDEVTL] undergoes an increase in phosphorylation in the PKA dKO (dKO/cont = 1.68), a proline-directed site upstream from SH3 domain. \par
\par
As described in endocytic actin patches in fission yeast [25143395], the polymerization  may provide a motive force for membrane invagination, aided by one or more F-BAR proteins (Pacsins, Trip10) that bend the lipid bilayer and bind dynamin. The movement of endocytic vesicles, once pinched off probably does not depend on actin polymerization [25143395].\par
\cf3\b\par
This database reports proteins identified by yeast-two-hybrid (Y2H) that bind to UT-A1 C-terminal fragment. The data are from studies carried out in the laboratory of Dr. Guangping Chen at Emory University [Xu G, Su H, Carter CB, Fr\'f6hlich O, Chen G. Depolymerization of cortical actin inhibits UT-A1 urea transporter endocytosis but promotes forskolin-stimulated membrane trafficking. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2012; 302:C1012-8. PMID: 22262062]. Also reported are the relative expression levels in the three renal tubule segments known to express UT-A1 (Slc14a2) from a study by Lee et al. [Lee JW, Chou CL, Knepper MA. Deep Sequencing in Microdissected Renal Tubules Identifies Nephron Segment-Specific Transcriptomes. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2015; 26:2669-77. PMID: 25817355]. The interacting proteins from yeast two-hybrid studies are considered more likely to interact with UT-A1 isoforms in vivo if they are expressed in the same cells as UT-A1.\par
\par
Calmodulin (Calm1, Calm2, Calm3) and the regulatory subunit of calcineurin (Ppp3r1) bind calcium through their EF hand domains, allowing them to bind to and activate effector proteins including calcineurin catalytic subunit. \par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\cf1\fs32 When the regulatory subunit or calmodulin itself binds to the catalytic subunit of calcineurin (\b0 Ppp3ca or Ppp3cb), it relieves autoinhibition, increasing catalytic activity.\par
bro.nhlbi.nih.gov\par
sc-bro.nhlbi.nih.gov\par
\pard\cf5\b Nfatc2\cf1  undergoes marked dephosphorylation at Ser237 [GAK\cf2 RRHS\cf1 *CAEALV] in PKA double KO (dKO/cont =\cf5  0.27). \cf1 This site is a likely direct PKA site.  This site overlaps the nuclear localization sequence and may regulate this TF by affecting localization.  This may be opposed in part by activation of the phosphatase calcineurin (\b0 Ppp3ca (PP2-B)\b ).  There are several phosphorylation sites in Nfatc2 that are targets of calcineurin in the 99-365 region [11030334]. Upon cell stimulation, all these\par
sites except Ser-245 are dephosphorylated by calcineurin. These would be predicted to show an increase in phosphorylation in the PKA dKO. Indeed, some sites showed marked increases in PKA dKO:  Ser99 (dKO/cont = 251), Ser270 (dKO/cont = 27), Ser748 (dKO/cont = 105).  Others showed no change: Ser136, Ser150, Ser219, Ser223.  UniProt: \b0 Rapid nuclear exit of NFATC is thought to be one mechanism by which cells distinguish between sustained and transient calcium signals. Nfatc2 is a member of the multicomponent NFATC transcription complex that consists of  NFATC2,  NFATC1, AP1, MAF, GATA isoforms and Crebbp. \b\par
\par
\b0 An Nfat enhancer element is located 489 bp upstream of the AQP2 transcription start site influences hypertonicity-stimulated AQP2 transcriptional activity [16641150]. Nfatc regulates AQP2 gene expression and functional NFAT binding sites within the proximal AQP2 promoter [bp]  are responsible for regulation of AQP2 by NFATc proteins [17166937].  \b\par
\par
UniProt: \b0 Cytoplasmic for the phosphorylated form and nuclear after activation\'85 phosphorylation is controlled in part by calcineurin-mediated dephosphorylation. Rapid nuclear exit of NFATC is thought to be one mechanism by which cells distinguish between sustained and transient calcium signals. The subcellular localization of NFATC plays a key role in the regulation of gene transcription. Nfatc regulates AQP2 gene expression and functional NFAT binding sites within the proximal AQP2 promoter [bp]  are responsible for regulation of AQP2 by NFATc proteins [17166937].  An Nfat enhancer element located 489 bp upstream of the AQP2 transcription start site influences hypertonic stimulation of AQP2 transcriptional activity [16641150].  Nfatc2 is a member of the multicomponent NFATC transcription complex that consists of at least two components, a pre-existing cytoplasmic component NFATC2 and an inducible nuclear component NFATC1. Other members the complex: AP1 TFs, MAF, GATA isoforms and Crebbp. The phosphorylated form specifically interacts with XPO1; which mediates nuclear export. \b\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf5 Nfatc2\cf1   is regulated in part by activation of the phosphatase calcineurin (\b0 Ppp3ca (PP2-B)\b ) through calmodulin activation in association with cytoplasmic calcium mobilization.  There are several such phosphorylation sites in Nfatc2 that are targets of calcineurin. \b0 NFAT1 is phosphorylated on fourteen conserved phosphoserine residues in its regulatory domain, thirteen of which are dephosphorylated upon stimulation. Dephosphorylation of all thirteen residues is required to mask a nuclear export signal (NES), cause full exposure of a nuclear localization signal (NLS), and promote transcriptional activity\b  \b0\par
\trowd\trgaph30\trleft-30\trrh290\trpaddl30\trpaddr30\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\cellx1002\pard\intbl\kerning0\f3\fs22 S136\cell\row\trowd\trgaph30\trleft-30\trrh290\trpaddl30\trpaddr30\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\cellx1002\pard\intbl S150\cell\row\trowd\trgaph30\trleft-30\trrh290\trpaddl30\trpaddr30\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\cellx1002\pard\intbl S219\cell\row\trowd\trgaph30\trleft-30\trrh290\trpaddl30\trpaddr30\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\cellx1002\pard\intbl S223\cell\row\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\kerning24\f0\fs32\par
\par
\cf0\lang9\kerning0\fs22\par
}
 